---
layout: post
title: D&D Make-A-Map
date: 2018-04-12
categories: projects
description: A web app that randomly generates a D&D Battlemap based on user parameters
author: Justin Gonzales
author-image: https://avatars2.githubusercontent.com/u/34696177?s=460&v=4
author-bio: First Year Computer Security Student at Rochester Institute of Technology
author-email: jag2724@rit.edu
author-social:
  github: https://github.com/justing0927
---
# Summary
D&D Make-A-Map is a web-app built using the Create React App, made to randomly generate d&d maps with various biomes and obstacles with the click of a button (or 3).
It's built using Node.JS and has documentation on how to build it locally or as a server.
The application utilizes JSX, html, and javascript and user input to create it's random maps.

# The Journey

D&D Battlemaps can be frustrating. Either you spend hours to settle for an imperfect map, you spend significant time drawing out a map during the session
to fit your needs, or even forgo the map altogether. Oftentimes, you only need a quick, concrete, place to get one's bearings. 
It's even worse for unexpected encounters where you need a map. So, I set out to do what needed done.
I wanted to have something that could quickly generate a map based on a biome and some other input parameters, like for obstacles (and I think it turned out pretty alright).

I needed a web-app, and having never done anything in HTML, Javascript, I figured I might as well throw myself into the deep-end, and try and use React, as I knew
it was a popular front-end app deal.
It took hours to start getting anything done, but I learned a lot in the process about HTML, Javascript, states, buttons, and how exactly not to organize the code
for a web-app. This is where I met the first big roadblock. 
I was starting nearly from scratch (the Create React App helpfully creates the necessary files and an example page), and needed to figure out how to DO things.
Hours of tutorials, trial and error, and I finally understood how to set a components state and have that change things. 

So, I had gotten buttons working! Options! Input values! The keys to doing somethign!
All that was left was creating the actual map, and displaying it correctly, how hard could that be?
Of course, that's the essence of the project, and it had me stumped for awhile. The second biggest roadblock.
But hey, eventually after hours of researching and trying things from button groups to a crazy attempt to display each object individually, I stumbled on html tables.
It was as simple as two for loops and learning about how to add children to nodes. Which, would be a quick, simple, task for anyone who knew what they were doing.
I, of course, didn't. So quite a few hours later, with the help of some others (thanks Hudson) it was done!

So, altogether, I spent quite a few hours over quite a few days working until I got something I decided worked and I could be proud of. 
There's plenty more to be done, and plans are in place for the future; but, for now I'm happy with Make-A-Map, and everything I learned.
