---
layout: post
title: "Gateway - IoT Identifier"
date: 2018-04-12 16:00:00
categories:
  - 
description: IoT is revolutionary and can make your life easier - but first it needs to know who you are.
image: https://images.idgesg.net/images/article/2017/10/wireless_network_internet_of_things_iot_thinkstock_853701554-100739367-large.jpg
image-sm:
author: Natalie Cardinali
author-image: https://avatars3.githubusercontent.com/u/24848665?v=4
author-bio: Computer Science student at Rochester Insitutite of Technology 
author-email: natalievcardinali@gmail.com
author-social:
  github: https://github.com/Ha1fByte/
---
## Background
Sometimes projects start one way and end in a completely different one. Originally the idea for my project Gateway spawned from the simple issue of locking doors. Last school year I repeatedly had issues with my roommate forgetting her keys, and this year the issue returned because I now had three roommates rather than one. The original idea was an IoT gateway of some sort that would light up different LEDs on a base that would correspond with each roommate. That way no matter how much our schedules varried we would know who was home and be able to accomodate each other that way. Eventually the plan for CSH to make a Smartroom for Imagine RIT came up and I was reminded of my plans for a way to id a user in a room, and thats how the concept for Gateway was formed. 
## Research i.e. Trial and Error
Most projects require at least a basic amount of reasearch before they start, and while most software projects can get away with a basic 'learn as you go' approch, hardware projects are a little different. The most research that was done for this project was on how was I going to identify the people entering the room. RFID was one of my first thoughts as it was something relitively well known and documented. The issue that RFID eventually presented was distance. Normally RFID readers and tags can only be a few inches appart in order to work, and to get the to work farther appart than say- a foot, required modules that cost upwards of two hundred dollars. So RFID was out. 
The next option I looked into was Bluetooth Low Energy or BLE technology. It was similar in concept to RFID but it had a much longer range and also had a much lower price point. The ultimate reason it wasn't picked was that it had a lot of retrictions on how it could ultimately be used. In order to id the person you need them to install an app with tracking software on it, and have that software either enabled through their phone or active when they were near the BLE devices. I wanted my sensor to be able to id a person quickly and without any actions required by the person being identified. 
Eventually someone suggested facial recognition. It doesn't require the user to do anything other than look at the camera- and as luck would have it I knew of a service that could do the comparison of the faces without intimate knowledge of computer vison. The service was the Cognative Face API thats hosted through Azure, and after setting up an Azure account I was on my way. The one issue with using facial recognition was that I really didn't want to have a camera constantly taking pictures, so inorder to solve this problem I used a proximity sensor. Through trial and error I eventally ended up with the Parallax Ping))) sensor. It gave the ability to determine distance with relatively decent accuracy and I could use the distance of the nearest object to set off the camera. 
## Asembly
The final product for this project is a Raspberry Pi 3 connected to a Parallax Ping))) with a PiCamera v2.1 attached to the RaspPi. 
